{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2708
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 2023/09/12\
22:56\
\
start of a new adventure!\
\
this data analysis seeks to explore about space missions from all over the world from 1957 to August 2022.\
\
I took data from kaggle named as "
\f1 \uc0\u55358 \u56976 
\f0  Real Time Space Mission Dataset 
\f1 \uc0\u55357 \u56960 
\f0  
\f1 \uc0\u55358 \u56976 
\f0  Collection of space missions data\'94\
description: All space missions from 1957 to August 2022, including details on the location, date, and result of the launch, the company responsible, and the name, price, and status of the rocket used for the mission.\
uploader: ABHIJIT DAHATONDE\
link: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/abhijitdahatonde/real-time-space-mission-dataset\
usability: 10.0\
file name: space_missions1.csv\
\
metadata:\
Field-Description \
Company-Company responsible for the space mission \
Location-Location of the launch \
Date-Date of the launch \
Time-Time of the launch (UTC) \
Rocket-Name of the rocket used for the mission \
Mission-Name of the space mission (or missions) \
RocketStatus-Status of the rocket as of August 2022 (Active or Inactive) \
Price-Cost of the rocket in millions of US dollars \
MissionStatus-Status of the mission (Success, Failure, Partial Failure, Prelaunch Failure)\
\
#I\'92m thinking of making a viz that involves the different prominent rockets appearing in a progression, and are to scale. this will help the audience to have an idea of how the rocket industry is changing. which means that I will be doing a lot of photo editing.\
\
possible analyses: \
- number of launches of countries, and then time series siya\
- kumusta yung launches? may dominant ba? may change in dominance? na-democratize ba?\
- when did the number of launching countries increase?\
- how about the cost of the launches across time?\
- cost and number of successes, partial failures, and failures\
- most frequent type of mission\
- rocket with the most amount of launches, least, etc.\
- countries with the most number of:\
	- attempted laumches\
	- successful launches\
- number of launches of top 5 countries with the most number of launches\
- most used rocket\
- ratio of failed missions and successful\
\
idea: use the map as well for the frequency of missions\
\
23:19 - OUT\
\
\
\
2023/09/13\
22:59 - IN\
\
I\'92m exploring the entries using the pivot table. \
btw, I should clean the data first\
\
number of entries: 4,626\
\
pivot tables are so easy to use! kind of tableau. I could also do the linear regression here\
\
the time entries are date time, all having the same date. if it will be used, its date part should be removed.\
\
most used rocket\
\
there\'92s a lot of years with missing prices. was that during the cold war?\
23:59 - OUT\
\
\
2023/09/14\
19:38 - IN\
\
as of now, what has been analyzed are:\
- number of rockets per year\
- sum of prices of rockets per year\
- count of rockets with prices per year\
- \
\
\
create an analysis that has filters that shows per country, and per year. this could also incorporate a map and a dropdown list\
\
\
I extracted the name of the countries though RIGHT and IF. I will clean it further using TRIM. I will also look for the errors (non-country names) through pivot tables.\
through the pivot table, I was able to identify 7 non-country names out of 22 entries\
there are 50 rockets from these sites.\
I have to replace them manually with the proper country name\
Did kazakhstan really launch rockets or was it the USSR? russia still launches rockets in kazakhstan today\
\
di ko na matuloy. need to sleep already\
\
\
2023/09/16\
8:50\
\
so make a summary table\
year | country | planned launches | successful launches | number of types of rockets | average cost |  \
\
major variables:\
1. launches (planned, successful)\
- number of annual planned launches (viz, gawa ng tick box filter for countries or years)\
- growth of annual planned launches\
- number of successful launches (bar graph)\
- percent of successful launches\
- growth in percentage of successful launches\
\
2. rocket types\
2.1 how many rocket types launched per year (graph)\
2.1.1 overall\
2.1.2 per country\
- growth in number of rocket types\
\
3. cost\
2.1 average cost of launch per year (graph)\
2.1.1 overall\
2.1.2 per country \
2.2 average cost of successful launches (graph)\
\
4. country\
- how many countries are launching yearly? (graph)\
\
percent of \
growth rate of number of launches \
\
\
\
\
more general,\
average number of annual launches per country \
\
\
rank countries (bar graphs)\
\
take note of the prominent rockets (image)\
\
prediction of launch growth, global (graph)\
\
\
9:47\
ASI is Italian pala, not Kenyan. Ang galing kasi nakikita ko na talagang needed yung ina-analyze mo yung data. the machine is just helping\
\
9:54\
the launch summary sheet is complete\
\
10:18 - break\
\
\
10:47 - continue\
\
11:20 yu ku na yung sa excel. ang hirap ng count distinct don. di ko makuha. will instead use sql for the count distinct and then import the prepared spreadsheet\
\
11:46 - matudtud naku p\'e2\
\
\
\
14:35\
after sleeping, I returned to querying. now I feel fully energized. blessed are You, LORD our God, Who brings sleep to my eyes.\
\
15:24\
done querying and preparing data. will be starting the visual and statistical analysis now.}